Section 17 of the Local Government Code of 1991 (RA 7160)  provides that barangays should provide basic services that include, but are not limited to, the following:

Agricultural support services which include planting materials distribution system and operation of farm produce collection and buying stations;
Health and social welfare services which include maintenance of barangay health center and day-care center;
Services and facilities related to general hygiene and sanitation, beautification, and solid waste collection;
Maintenance of katarungang pambarangay; 

Maintenance of barangay roads and bridges and water supply systems;
Infrastructure facilities such as multi-purpose hall, multipurpose pavement, plaza, sports center, and other similar facilities;
Information and reading center; and
Satellite or public market, where viable.



Barangay Justice System or Katarungang Pambarangay  provides a friendly, inexpensive, and speedy forum for the settlement of disputes where the parties can freely explore options for amicably resolving their disputes without resorting to the courts.

Barangay Health Center is a community-based and patient-directed organization. Its goal is to provide first aid, maternal and child health care, diagnosis of social diseases, and other basic health services to all the members of the community it is serving.

Day Care Center is an integral part of the country's program that provides for the basic holistic needs of young children from birth to age six, to promote their optimum growth and development.

The barangay water system provides access to clean and affordable drinking water using a sustainable model and community paticipatory approach.

Beautification projects are aimed at helping residents dramatically improve their neighborhoods' aesthetics. Well-maintained and clean communities discourage littering and illegal dumping.

Waste Management
Wastes within the barangay should be properly segragated by its residents. Garbage collection for biodegradable, compostable and reusable wastes will be processed in the barangay's Material Recovery Facility. Collection of non-recyclable materials and special wastes shall be the responsibility by the city.

Satellite Market
The barangay's Satellite Market was established to ensure that the residents have access to basic necessities without leaving their barangay.

Community Garden serves to assist the barangays residents' food self-reliance by providing seedlings and a plot of land where they can grow vegetables.


Barangay Plaza  
The barangay plaza serves as venue for sports, recreation and cultural activities.

